OBSDOCS-1723: Port the "Installing Logging" sections to 5.8 and 6.y docs (#89053)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/log6x-logging-loki-gui-install.adoc

. Install the Red{nbsp}Hat OpenShift Logging Operator:

.. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

.. Choose  *Red{nbsp}Hat OpenShift Logging* from the list of available Operators, and click *Install*.

.. Ensure that the *A specific namespace on the cluster* is selected under *Installation Mode*.

.. Ensure that *Operator recommended namespace* is *openshift-logging* under *Installed Namespace*.

.. Select *Enable Operator recommended cluster monitoring on this namespace*.
+
This option sets the `openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true"` label in the Namespace object.
You must select this option to ensure that cluster monitoring
scrapes the `openshift-logging` namespace.

.. Select *stable-6.y* as the *Update Channel*.

.. Select an *Approval Strategy*.
+
* The *Automatic* strategy allows Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) to automatically update the Operator when a new version is available.
+
* The *Manual* strategy requires a user with appropriate credentials to approve the Operator update.

.. Click *Install*.

> 

Reviewer: Here we should add a step to instruct the user to create the object storage Secret. They could use the + sign in the top right of the web console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. While the operator installs we can continue by creating the secret with the credentials to access the object storage. To do this using the UI press the `+` in the top right of the screen to access the *Import YAML* page. In this page paste your YAML definition for the secret. For example, create a secret to access Amazon Web Services (AWS) s3. After writing your `Secret` press the *Create* button.

.Example `Secret` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: logging-loki-s3 <1>
  namespace: openshift-logging <2>
stringData: <3>
  access_key_id: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
  access_key_secret: wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
  bucketnames: s3-bucket-name
  endpoint: https://s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com
  region: eu-central-1
----
<1> Note down the name used for the secret `logging-loki-s3` you will need it when creating the `LokiStack` resource.
<2> Set the namespace to `openshift-logging` as that will be the namespace we will use to deploy `LokiStack`
<3> For the contents of the secret see the Loki object storage section.
--
include::snippets/logging-retention-period-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
--
```

include::snippets/logging-retention-period-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
--

. Click *Create*.

> *Installed Operators* page. Select the {lo} operator and click the *All instances* tab.
> 
> . From the *Create new* drop-down list, select *LokiStack*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. After creating the secret, navigate to the *Installed Operators* page. Select the {loki-op} under the *Provided APIs* find the *LokiStack* resource and press *Create Instance*.
```

    secret:
      name: logging-loki-s3 # <4>
      type: s3 # <5>
      credentialMode:
  storageClassName: <storage_class_name> # <6>
  tenants:
    mode: openshift-logging # <7>
----
<1> Use the name `logging-loki`.
<2> You must specify the `openshift-logging` namespace.
<3> Specify the deployment size. Supported size options for production instances of Loki are 1x.small, 1x.extra-small, 1x.small, or 1x.medium. Additionally, 1x.pico is supported starting with {logging} 6.1.
<4> Specify the name of your log store secret.
<5> Specify the corresponding storage type.
<6> Specify the name of a storage class for temporary storage. For best performance, specify a storage class that allocates block storage. Available storage classes for your cluster can be listed by using the `oc get storageclasses` command.
<7> `openshift-logging` is the default tenancy mode where a tenant will be created for each log type: audit, infrastructure, and application logs. This enables access control for individual users and user groups to different log streams.
--

. Click *Create*.
+
--
include::snippets/logging-retention-period-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
--

.Verification

> . Go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
> . Make sure the *openshift-logging* project is selected.
> . In the *Status* column, verify that you see green checkmarks with *InstallSucceeded* and the text *Up to date*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *LokiStack* tab you should now see your `LokiStack` instance 
. In the *Status* column, verify that eventually you see the `Condition: Ready` with a green checkmark.
```

// Module is included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="6x-logging-loki-gui-install_{context}"]
= Installing {logging-uc} and the {loki-op} using the web console

To install and configure logging on your {product-title} cluster, an Operator such as {loki-op} for log storage must be installed first. This can be done from the OperatorHub within the web console.

.Prerequisites

> * You have access to a supported object store (AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, Azure, Swift, Minio, {rh-storage}).
> * You have administrator permissions.
> * You have access to the {product-title} web console.

Reviewer: Just match the order we used above
```suggestion
* You have administrator permissions.
* You have access to the {product-title} web console.
* You have access to a supported object store (AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, Azure, Swift, Minio, {rh-storage}).
```

Author: nice observation, done

.Procedure

. In the {product-title} web console *Administrator* perspective, go to *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

. Type {loki-op} in the *Filter by keyword* field. Click *{loki-op}* in the list of available Operators, and then click *Install*.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The Community {loki-op} is not supported by Red{nbsp}Hat.
====

> . Select *stable* or *stable-x.y* as the *Update channel*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *stable-x.y* as the *Update channel*.
```

Author: done

+
--

> include::snippets/logging-stable-updates-snip.adoc[]

Reviewer: This snippet needs to be updated. We do not publish stable. This comment relates with my previous comment on this snippet. We can either rewrite the snippet or move the information to a section.

Author: Removed the snippet.

--
+

> The {loki-op} must be deployed to the global operator group namespace `openshift-operators-redhat`, so the *Installation mode* and *Installed Namespace* are already selected. If this namespace does not already exist, it is created for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {loki-op} must be deployed to the global operator group namespace `openshift-operators-redhat`, so the *Installation mode* and *Installed Namespace* are already selected. If this namespace does not already exist, it will be created for you.
```

Author: done

// Module is included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="log6x-logging-loki-gui-install_{context}"]
= Installing {logging-uc} by using the web console

Install {loki-op} on your {product-title} cluster to manage the log store `Loki` from the OperatorHub by using the {product-title} web console. You can deploy and configure the `Loki` log store by reconciling the resource LokiStack with the {loki-op}.

.Prerequisites

* You have administrator permissions.
* You have access to the {product-title} web console.
* You have access to a supported object store (AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, Azure, Swift, Minio, {rh-storage}).

.Procedure

. In the {product-title} web console *Administrator* perspective, go to *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

. Type {loki-op} in the *Filter by keyword* field. Click *{loki-op}* in the list of available Operators, and then click *Install*.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The Community {loki-op} is not supported by Red{nbsp}Hat.
====

. Select *stable-x.y* as the *Update channel*.
+

> The {loki-op} must be deployed to the global operator group namespace `openshift-operators-redhat`, so the *Installation mode* and *Installed Namespace* are already selected. If this namespace does not already exist, it will be created for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {loki-op} must be deployed to the global Operator group namespace `openshift-operators-redhat`, so the *Installation mode* and *Installed Namespace* are already selected. If this namespace does not already exist, it will be created for you.
```

. Select *Enable Operator-recommended cluster monitoring on this namespace.*
+
This option sets the `openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true"` label in the `Namespace` object. You must select this option to ensure that cluster monitoring scrapes the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace.

. For *Update approval* select *Automatic*, then click *Install*.
+

> If the approval strategy in the subscription is set to *Automatic*, the update process initiates as soon as a new operator version is available in the selected channel. If the approval strategy is set to *Manual*, you must manually approve pending updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the approval strategy in the subscription is set to *Automatic*, the update process initiates as soon as a new Operator version is available in the selected channel. If the approval strategy is set to *Manual*, you must manually approve pending updates.
```

+
[NOTE]
====
An Operator might display a `Failed` status before the installation completes. If the Operator install completes with an `InstallSucceeded` message, refresh the page.
====

> . While the operator installs, create the namespace to which the log store will be deployed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. While the Operator installs, create the namespace to which the log store will be deployed.
```

.. Click *+* in the top right of the screen to access the *Import YAML* page. 

.. Add the YAML definition for the `openshift-logging` namespace:
+
.Example `namespace` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: openshift-logging # <1>
  labels:
    openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true" # <2>
----

> <1> `openshift-logging` is the namespace dedicated for all {logging} workloads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> The `openshift-logging` namespace is dedicated for all {logging} workloads.
```

> <2> A string value that specifies the label, as shown, to ensure that cluster monitoring scrapes the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<2> A string value that specifies the label, as shown, to ensure that cluster monitoring scrapes the `openshift-logging` namespace.
```

Author: fixed

.. Click *Create*.

. Create a secret with the credentials to access the object storage.

.. Click *+* in the top right of the screen to access the *Import YAML* page. 

.. Add the YAML definition for the secret. For example, create a secret to access Amazon Web Services (AWS) s3:
+

> .Example `Secret` object

Reviewer 4: @theashiot  Is there any plan to deploy lokistack on COO managed cluster?

Reviewer: You mean CCO? I believe @theashiot was planning to write those sections in the `Loki object storage` section once he creates the page about the `Log Store`. If you actually meant COO in one of the discussions of this PR we talked about adding sections for that on a follow up.

For context @theashiot CCO stands for cloud-credentials-operator & COO cluster-observabilty-operator

Author: Thanks, @JoaoBraveCoding! Yes COO will be added as a follow-up, if i haven't created a Jira for that yet, i'll create one and add here.  About CCO, I agree with what Joao says.

Author: Created the Jira: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OBSDOCS-1749

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: logging-loki-s3 <1>
  namespace: openshift-logging <2>
stringData: <3>
  access_key_id: <access_key_id>
  access_key_secret: <access_key>
  bucketnames: s3-bucket-name
  endpoint: https://s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com
  region: eu-central-1
----

> <1> Note down the name used for the secret `logging-loki-s3` you will need it when creating the `LokiStack` resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> Note down the name used for the secret `logging-loki-s3` to use it later when creating the `LokiStack` resource.
```

<2> Set the namespace to `openshift-logging` as that will be the namespace we will use to deploy `LokiStack`
<3> For the contents of the secret see the Loki object storage section.
+
--
include::snippets/logging-retention-period-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
--

.. Click *Create*.

. Navigate to the *Installed Operators* page. Select the {loki-op} under the *Provided APIs* find the *LokiStack* resource and click *Create Instance*.

. Select *YAML view*, and then use the following template to create a `LokiStack` CR:
+
--
.Example `LokiStack` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: loki.grafana.com/v1
kind: LokiStack
metadata:
  name: logging-loki # <1>
  namespace: openshift-logging # <2>
spec:
  size: 1x.small # <3>
  storage:
    schemas:
    - version: v13
      effectiveDate: "<yyyy>-<mm>-<dd>"
    secret:
      name: logging-loki-s3 # <4>
      type: s3 # <5>
  storageClassName: <storage_class_name> # <6>
  tenants:
    mode: openshift-logging # <7>
----
<1> Use the name `logging-loki`.
<2> You must specify the `openshift-logging` namespace.

> <3> Specify the deployment size. Supported size options for production instances of Loki are 1x.small, 1x.extra-small, 1x.small, or 1x.medium. Additionally, 1x.pico is supported starting with {logging} 6.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Specify the deployment size. Supported size options for production instances of Loki are 1x.extra-small, 1x.small, or 1x.medium. Additionally, 1x.pico is supported starting with {logging} 6.1.
```

Author: done

+
If the approval strategy in the subscription is set to *Automatic*, the update process initiates as soon as a new Operator version is available in the selected channel. If the approval strategy is set to *Manual*, you must manually approve pending updates.
+
[NOTE]
====
An Operator might display a `Failed` status before the installation finishes. If the Operator install completes with an `InstallSucceeded` message, refresh the page.
====

. While the operator installs, you can create the namespace where the log store will be deployed to.

.. Click *+* in the top right of the screen to access the *Import YAML* page. 

.. Add the YAML definition for the `openshift-logging` namespace:
+
.Example `namespace` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: openshift-logging # <1>
  labels:
    openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true" # <2>
----
<1> `openshift-logging` is the namespace dedicated for all {logging} workloads.
<2> A string value that specifies the label, as shown, to ensure that cluster monitoring scrapes the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace.

.. Click *Create*.

. Create a secret with the credentials to access the object storage.

> .. Click *+* in the top right of the screen to access the *Import YAML* page. 
> 
> .. Add the YAML definition for the `openshift-logging` namespace:
> +
> .Example `namespace` object
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Namespace
> metadata:
>   name: openshift-logging # <1>
>   labels:
>     openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true" # <2>
> ----
> <1> `openshift-logging` is the namespace dedicated for all {logging} workloads.
> <2> A string value that specifies the label, as shown, to ensure that cluster monitoring scrapes the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace.
> 
> .. Click *Create*.

Reviewer: Duplicated
```suggestion
```
